# Machine-Learning-for-Automated1-Grading-of-Lung-Cancer-Tissue-Fibrosis-Stages

Lung tissue fibrosis scoring plays a vital role in understanding the progression of lung diseases and formulating effective therapeutic interventions in lung cancer stages. However, traditional scoring methods rely on manual histopathological examination introducing subjectivity and inconsistency into the assessment process. These methods are further hampered by inter-observer variability, lack of quantification, and their time-consuming nature. To address these limitations, we propose a machine learning-based approach for automated scoring of lung tissue fibrosis stages. Our study begins with the collection of a lung slide image dataset from 58-week-old female mice using second harmonic generation (SHG) microscopy. In our proposed approach, first, we manually extracted features based on the 46 statistical parameters of fibrillar collagen. Subsequently, we pre-processed the images and utilized a pre-trained VGG16 model to extract hidden features from pre-processed images. We then combined both image and statistical features to train various machine learning and deep learning models for classification tasks. Evaluation of the trained models includes both binary (In utero Air (control) and In utero SHS (baseline) vs In utero Air + Urethane (treatment_1) and In utero SHS + Urethane (treatment_2)) and multi-label classification (control, baseline, treatment_1 and treatment_2) to predict lung cancer stage. We also employed advanced algorithms such as K-means, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), t-distributed stochastic neighbour embedding (t-SNE), and uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) to conduct thorough image analysis for lung tissue fibrosis. Experimental validation of our proposed approach demonstrates promising results. We achieved an average accuracy of 83% and an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC AUC) values of 1.0 using a machine learning-based support vector machine (SVM) model for binary classification tasks. For multi-label classification tasks, to quantify the structural alteration of collagen, we attained an average accuracy of 73% and ROC AUC values of 1.0, 0.38, 0.95, and 0.86 for control, baseline, treatment_1, and treatment_2 categories, respectively. Our findings provide significant potential for enhancing diagnostic accuracy, understanding disease mechanisms, and improving therapeutic strategies for lung cancer research and clinical practice using machine learning and deep learning models.
